---
layout: presentation
title: Multi-Dimensional Arrays
permalink: /arrays-multidimensional/
---

class: center, middle

# Multidimensional Arrays
> The universe is not a stagnant place where technology stands still and only the few govern its destiny. Rather, it is a multidimensional dynamic entity that interacts with all things, even the very smallest. And what part we each place in it and the effect we have on it is a matter of our own choice.
> 
> -[R.G. Risch](https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/5618917-beyond-mars), Beyond Mars: Crimson Fleet

---

# Agenda

1. [Overview](#concept)
1. [Conclusions](#conclusions)

---

name: overview

# Overview

---

template: overview
name: overview-1

## Concept

Multidimensional arrays are arrays that store other arrays nested within them.
- An array that stores arrays is called a two-dimensional array
- An array that stores arrays that themselves store arrays is called a three-dimensional array
- An array that stores arrays that themselves store arrays that in turn also store arrays is called a four-dimensional array
- and so on.

---

template: overview
name: overview-2

## Two-dimensional example

A two-dimensional array - an array that stores inner arrays of type `int`.
- Note the **two** sets of square brackets after the data type declaration.
```java
int[][] numbers = {
    { 10, 9, 8 },
    { 1, 2, 3 },
    { 6, 5, 4 },
}
```

To output the third value in the second inner array - 3
```java
System.out.println( numbers[1][2] );
```

---

template: overview
name: overview-2

## Three-dimensional example

A three-dimensional array - an array that stores inner arrays of type `String`.
- Note the **three** sets of square brackets after the data type declaration.
```java
String[][][] words = {
    {
        {"who", "what", "when", "why", "how"},
        {"whither", "whence", "wherefore"}
    },
    {
        {"there", "that", "then"},
        {"thence", "hence", "heretofore"}
    }
}
```

To output the third value in the second child array of the first inner array - 'wherefore'.
```java
System.out.println( words[0][1][2] );
```

---

name: conclusions

# Conclusions

---

template: conclusions
name: conclusions-1

You now have a basic understanding of multidimensional arrays - especially two-dimensional arrays - in Java.
- Thank you.  Bye.

